Let's talk about what is a reasonable budget for when you're trying to launch year in the year first
diversion through contracting first thing I want to say is it is not very expensive.
And if it were the case that webapps especially mobile apps were extremely expensive then I would not
be making this course.
I think that a lot of people are under the impression that apps if done well are extremely expensive.
That is just not the case.
You can take that from me and running a web studio for over almost three years now and it made me 120
hundred thirty applications it's just not nearly as expensive as you think.
In my experience as an entrepreneur I've run the gamut in terms of how much money I've spent on contracting
I've gotten deployable apps out in into market for as little as $200.
I've built apps that seem like large applications that you know I spent $1000 $2000 on to give you an
example of the most recent personal software project that I did.
I actually had built software that tracks taxis and manages the check in process and use for taxis that
was essentially an Administration panel.
And what it did was it would allow it allowed all the drivers to check in online with a visual schedule.
They can click and choose and drop and swap out shifts.
It's integrated Twilio.
You know if you guys are not familiar with Twilley Antonios a system that allows you to send text messages
from your web application.
It use Twilio to check ins every time the taxi driver did to their car they would check in answer a
bunch of questions the application would store it and present that information.
It could calculate late fees based on when they checked in they could do things like expense tracking
kept track of how much was spent on gas and how much was spent on carwashes.
And it used an automatic keyword system.
So as opposed to having taxis call in to the dispatcher may have problems they could just text into
the application and based on the keywords the system could respond with instructions or pass that information
on to another person who could actually respond to it.
Now that would sound like a big application.
Nope it actually wasn't.
I spent about $1300 on that entire thing.
That took about 10 days to build and I use a native English speaker.
I didn't have to take this Dandiya I didn't have to send this to South America or to Eastern Europe
or use someone in England and it was barely over a thousand dollars.
I mean I could have launched a more basic version of it for eight hundred seven hundred dollars.
So there's a lot of functionality involved in that example.
And it really is not something that has to break the bank.
Now if you're going out and getting quotes what you're trying to build and looks like you're about to
spend what you'd spend on a luxury car.
You are doing something wrong.
It's not the case that you have to spend that much money to build your application.
It very rarely is if it is the case you're probably doing one of two things.
One you're asking a studio and a studio has overhead and they charge a premium and they have their own
marketing budgets and everything like that.
You're using a studio that's charging you a lot of money.
It's also probably the case that they're located here in the United States and so you're not actually
taking advantage of the cost efficiencies of contracting when you do this.
They're charging you probably roughly what you'd pay an in-house developer.
That's bad you're also probably layering on way too many features at first when you launch your product
you want to launch with the core of what you think can deliver the effectively what the value of your
application to the consumer is.
You basically need to identify what the number one number two things that this apps are going to do
and build those first you do not need to launch with 20 25 features.
Actually I think in a lot of cases thats a very bad thing to do because you don't realize what your
customers want or your users want until you push it out there.
And so once you push it out there you will see what they want theyll demand other things and it might
be the case that they end up rejecting a lot of the features you've built if you're spending $20000
$40000 you're probably launching with something that's just too large.
If you guys follow any of like Eric recently in startup one of the things they talk about a lot is just
minimizing how much money you have to spend upfront before you figure out with new whether or not something
works.
Follow that model or build an MVP minimally viable product try to launch the smallest thing you possibly
can.
If it's costing you tons and tons of money to get it out the door you probably have too many features.
If you can afford to launch it for tons and tons of money then power to you but just be aware you're
taking a risk and this might be the most effective way of spending your money.
I think the most effective way of giving you an idea of how much things typically cost is just to give
you some examples and through examples you can get an idea of what raises the cost what lowers the cost
and what is a dollar value to associate with a small app and a medium sized app and a large.
Let's start with the example.
Number one let's say you want to build a Chrome extension app because you're not familiar.
You open up Google Chrome the Web browser the top right there is the Options button.
And next in that you can go to the Chrome store and you can install plug ins that affect your browser.
Say you wanted that app to make actions on your web browser based on the behavior of the web browser.
Let's get a little bit more specific.
Let's say you wanted to build an app that reminds you to get back to work every time you go to a certain
like say 20 25 websites from building that app.
Getting it in the App Store Xining little icon for it.
I think a realistic price for that would be about $400.
You could get it done for a thousand you could probably get it done for two hundred but I think you
might be cutting too many corners if you're going that low.
Now if you wanted to add in the ability to have settings on the system and add Web sites on the fly
you might need to add in an extra $200 that's a decent example.
That is a broad generalization as different every single time you ask a contractor because different
contractors have different rates different contractors work at certain speeds versus other people.
It's also depends if you use a fixed rate versus a price per hour.
That's something we're going to talk about later in the course so let's use an example number two.
This one is going to be a web app.
This web app allow you to log in through Facebook display on a wall all of your friends and their upcoming
birthdays then allow you to select a friend add notes to them about what you want to buy them for their
birthday and then have a system that can send you e-mail reminders and could possibly even in the e-mail
reminders populate some of the key words you used in your notes to give you Amazon suggestions.
That one hi would assume you could get built for anywhere from a thousand to $2000.
Again you can go above and below that then you're either paying way too much or you're cutting too many
corners.
The reason why this one's a little bit more complicated is because you now have to use Facebook logon
which means you have to integrate Facebook.
You need to handle user IDs and user accounts which means to log in log out.
Probably gonna have to add account settings and also has to do some pretty heavy manipulation from the
Facebook data and also e-mail notifications email notifications.
That's another day of work for a freelancer.
But it is a day of work e-mail notifications are generally simpler than say text message notifications
or push notifications on an app.
But it is something that they have to spend a day building and integrating Amazon.
Maybe that's another half day.
So I'd say about a thousand or $2000.
Now if you want to make this more polished You could definitely add some more features and I would probably
add a couple of more thousand dollars depending on what it was.
If you wanted to make this responsive responsive meaning that the web site would respond to whatever
screen resolution is opening it would automatically add just the Web site's dimensions to fit my iPad
or my iPhone.
Yeah you could probably add another $1500 to it because what you have to do is go back and design an
entirely new layout and that's going to depend a lot on the graphic design that you use.
That project right there the core of it one to $2000 you earlier wanted to polish it out make it responsive
and sharpen iPads and iPhones flawlessly.
You could spend easily three $4000.
There are certain things out there that will raise the price of your project significantly.
And this is where we get to the point where your project costs more than say $5000 is your project multi-platform
multi-platform meaning if you're building a mobile app doesn't need to be on iPhone Android Windows
phone and BlackBerry.
A good rule of thumb is that take the cost for building it on one application and then add 60 to 70
percent to build it on a second one.
And so if you're doing that four times you would need to make that calculation four different times.
Obviously depends on a lot of different variables.
I'm just speaking in general terms if I were to take an application and build it on an iPhone you would
have to design the front of the application for the iPhone and a server application that could handle
the data well the server application can be used in Android can be used in Windows Phone.
And that's what allows you to have some savings.
You're not doing the project effectively four times.
And if it's a case that you want to launch multi-platform like that that's where I think you need to
set down and have a hard think about whether or not it's smart to launch a basic project on multiple
platforms at once when it's just you.
It's generally a better idea to launch with one and less the entire value proposition of your application
is that it is multi-platform in which case you're just going to have to know are going to be spending
more money.
Another thing I look for.
Are you building something that's never been done before really all that means is that this is something
that the freelancer or the contractor or the studio they're going to have to do a lot of time researching
and if it's a really hard thing to do.
They could spend five hours researching it for every one hour they actually spent implementing it.
And so that's going to drive up the cost and that's something that you need to know that if you're building
something you've never seen before or since it's not very common it's going to get significantly more
expensive.
This was just a little taste of what I'm talking about when I say something.
Contracting is cheap.
Getting your first version out is cheap.
I think everyone's experience is going to be different.
It just depends what you're comfortable launching with and if you are again launching with something
that cost over ten thousand dollars or $8000.
Please do take some time to reassess whether or not these features are absolutely necessary.
I don't want you to go and spend a ton of money upfront and get burned realizing half what you build
isn't necessary isn't useful and isn't being accepted by your users.
You guys have any questions post some of the group discussion or private message me if you guys are
looking for estimates for cost on your applications.
I would say please hold off on that.
The reason why I'm saying this is because later in the course we're going to talk about how you will
find a contractor and how you can effectively gauge what the price is when you go out and actually do
this for real.
It's going to get you the most accurate price and it's kind of you're wasting time by asking for quotes
from someone else.
Even if you are going around shopping around to studios based on your idea just know that right now
until you actually get out there and you follow the rest of the steps in the course you're not going
to get a very accurate representation with the prices so have a little patience and just hold off just
for a second but have any other questions regarding this lecture.
Just let me know and we can talk about it.